about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

# About neuroccm.org | ncrit.org #

neuroccm.org [ncrit.org] is a resource site, blog site, and personal landing page, developed by Houman Khosravani. The aim of neuroccm.org is to enhance discussion around topics related to stroke, neurointesive care, and critical care. Associated topics within neurology include status epilepticus.

I have an interest in medical education. In the ICU setting, I have developed the on-line educational portal for Western University (formerly ecriticalcare.org - now achieved) and most recently for University of Toronto's Critical Care program.

* Checkout the web-portal: [torontocriticalcare.org](http://www.torontocriticalcare.org/)
* checkout the web-portal: [ccw.ecriticalcare.org](http://ccw.ecriticalcare.org/)
* Checkout this white-paper: [Resident Education using a Cloud-based Mobile App in a Flipped Classroom](/manuscripts/Khosravani_Scholar_Project_Public.pdf)

# About Houman Khosravani #

I'm an academic Stroke physician with training in Internal Medicine, Critical Care/Neurocritical Care, and Stroke. My academic focus is Quality Improvement and patient safety in the care of acute stroke patients at a comprehensive stroke centre.

I completed my MSc in Physiology (neuroscience) at the University of Toronto with Dr. Peter Carlen. My MSc work focused on computational neuroscience, specifically time-series analysis and the application of nonlinear systems theory to anticipating and controlling seizures using electrical stimuli.

My PhD work was in Neuroscience, labs of Dr. G. Zamponi and P. Federico. The focus of my work was on understanding the generation of abnormal neuronal activity and synchrony at both cellular and neuronal network levels. I explored neuronal hyper-excitability in the context of normal physiology and that of seizures. My PhD had three areas of focus leading to the following findings:
* Exploring and defining the functional role of novel T-type Calcium Channel mutations in Primary Generalized Epilepsy. We showed that several of these SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphisms) had functional consequences that resulted in a gain of function and increased putative neuronal excitability.
* Prion protein's role in excitability and neuronal death - interaction between endogenous prion protein and NMDA receptors as a mechanism of excitotoxic neuronal death and hyper-excitability.
* Defining the role of high-frequency oscillations in intracranial EEG recordings of patients with epilepsy, as precursors to the ictal onset zone both temporally and spatially.

After graduate work and medical school I entered Neurology training at the University of Toronto for PGY1 and PGY2 before transitioning to Internal Medicine at the same institution. I completed my PGY4 and PGY5 training in Critical Care Medicine (Western University), followed by a a fellowship in Neurocritical Care (Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of Toronto) as well as ICU EEG (supervisor: Dr. Bryan Young). Subsequently, I completed a Stroke fellowship at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre.

My main clinical focus is Stroke Neurology. I also continue to practice Internal Medicine and Neuro/Critical Care Medicine.

[LinkedIn Profile](/pResources/Profile.pdf)


# Disclaimer #

In brief: the views and opinions expressed within this website are purely mine and do not reflect those of other authors or institutions. I have no financial conflicts of interest. In addition, information listed, obtained, disseminated, or referenced in this blog is never to be used as a substitute for expert medical opinion or decision-making. The topics discussed within neuroccm.org are personal opinions and not a peer-reviewed discussion of a topic. Thus, the main point of the postings here are to generate discussion, spread information, and a way to contribute to the online FOAM community with regards to topics in stroke, critical care, with a special focus on neurocritical care. I have no conflicts of interest and this website does not receive funding from any source. In addition, all efforts will be taken to use public-domain images, articles, and resources. Otherwise, images, PDFs, etc. belong to their rightful owner as cited. If you see anything posted that is not properly referenced, then please contact me and I will fix it in a timely manner.

For full details of neuroccm.org/ncrit.org’s disclaimer & disclosure statement, please see [Full disclaimer](/disclaimer.html)

# Site Development Environment #

This site is hosted on GitHub and Developed using Jekyll.

You can find the source code for Jekyll at
{% include icon-github.html username="jekyll" %} /
[jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll)


[westernsono]: https://westernsono.ca
[UWO]: https://www.uwo.ca
[NORSE]: https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/new-onset-refractory-status-epilepticus-norse/
[NORSEINST]:https://norseinstitute.org/
[HKScholar]:https://scholar.google.ca/citations?user=qzhk98YAAAAJ&hl=en
[HKPubmed]:https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=khosravani+h
[HKADS]:https://adsabs.harvard.edu/cgi-bin/nph-abs_connect?return_req=no_params&author=Khosravani,%20Houman

Commit message:

revision of website 42
revision of website 42

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

# About neuroccm.org | ncrit.org #

neuroccm.org [ncrit.org] is a resource site, blog site, and personal landing page, developed by Houman Khosravani. The aim of neuroccm.org is to enhance discussion around topics related to stroke, neurointesive care, and critical care. Associated topics within neurology include status epilepticus.

I have an interest in medical education. In the ICU setting, I have developed the on-line educational portal for Western University (formerly ecriticalcare.org - now achieved) and most recently for University of Toronto's Critical Care program.

* Checkout the web-portal: [torontocriticalcare.org](http://www.torontocriticalcare.org/)
* checkout the web-portal: [ccw.ecriticalcare.org](http://ccw.ecriticalcare.org/)
* Checkout this white-paper: [Resident Education using a Cloud-based Mobile App in a Flipped Classroom](/manuscripts/Khosravani_Scholar_Project_Public.pdf)

# About Houman Khosravani #

I'm an academic Stroke physician with training in Internal Medicine, Critical Care/Neurocritical Care, and Stroke. My academic focus is Quality Improvement and patient safety in the care of acute stroke patients at a comprehensive stroke centre.

I completed my MSc in Physiology (neuroscience) at the University of Toronto with Dr. Peter Carlen. My MSc work focused on computational neuroscience, specifically time-series analysis and the application of nonlinear systems theory to anticipating and controlling seizures using electrical stimuli.

My PhD work was in Neuroscience, labs of Dr. G. Zamponi and P. Federico. The focus of my work was on understanding the generation of abnormal neuronal activity and synchrony at both cellular and neuronal network levels. I explored neuronal hyper-excitability in the context of normal physiology and that of seizures. My PhD had three areas of focus leading to the following findings:
* Exploring and defining the functional role of novel T-type Calcium Channel mutations in Primary Generalized Epilepsy. We showed that several of these SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphisms) had functional consequences that resulted in a gain of function and increased putative neuronal excitability.
* Prion protein's role in excitability and neuronal death - interaction between endogenous prion protein and NMDA receptors as a mechanism of excitotoxic neuronal death and hyper-excitability.
* Defining the role of high-frequency oscillations in intracranial EEG recordings of patients with epilepsy, as precursors to the ictal onset zone both temporally and spatially.

After graduate work and medical school I entered Neurology training at the University of Toronto for PGY1 and PGY2 before transitioning to Internal Medicine at the same institution. I completed my PGY4 and PGY5 training in Critical Care Medicine (Western University), followed by a a fellowship in Neurocritical Care (Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of Toronto) as well as ICU EEG (supervisor: Dr. Bryan Young). Subsequently, I completed a Stroke fellowship at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre.

My main clinical focus is Stroke Neurology. I also continue to practice Internal Medicine and Neuro/Critical Care Medicine.

[LinkedIn Profile](/pResources/Profile.pdf)


# Disclaimer #

In brief: the views and opinions expressed within this website are purely mine and do not reflect those of other authors or institutions. I have no financial conflicts of interest. In addition, information listed, obtained, disseminated, or referenced in this blog is never to be used as a substitute for expert medical opinion or decision-making. The topics discussed within neuroccm.org are personal opinions and not a peer-reviewed discussion of a topic. Thus, the main point of the postings here are to generate discussion, spread information, and a way to contribute to the online FOAM community with regards to topics in stroke, critical care, with a special focus on neurocritical care. I have no conflicts of interest and this website does not receive funding from any source. In addition, all efforts will be taken to use public-domain images, articles, and resources. Otherwise, images, PDFs, etc. belong to their rightful owner as cited. If you see anything posted that is not properly referenced, then please contact me and I will fix it in a timely manner.

There is no implied or actual duty of care - all content on this website is for educational purposes only.

For full details of neuroccm.org/ncrit.org’s disclaimer & disclosure statement, please see [Full disclaimer](/disclaimer.html)

# Site Development Environment #

This site is hosted on GitHub and Developed using Jekyll.

You can find the source code for Jekyll at
{% include icon-github.html username="jekyll" %} /
[jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll)


[westernsono]: https://westernsono.ca
[UWO]: https://www.uwo.ca
[NORSE]: https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/new-onset-refractory-status-epilepticus-norse/
[NORSEINST]:https://norseinstitute.org/
[HKScholar]:https://scholar.google.ca/citations?user=qzhk98YAAAAJ&hl=en
[HKPubmed]:https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=khosravani+h
[HKADS]:https://adsabs.harvard.edu/cgi-bin/nph-abs_connect?return_req=no_params&author=Khosravani,%20Houman
